# Short term ground surface temperature prediction
Soil temperature is a very important variable in climate change studies, agricultural meteorology, soil sciences and strongly influences agricultural activities and planning (e.g. the date and depth of sowing crops, frost protection). There are many physically based studies in the literature which model soil temperature, but few are easily applicable for use in the field. Simple and precise short-term forecasting of soil temperature with minimum data requirements is the main goal of this study. The daily data was collected from the St. Adolphe Station (49°40'50.1"N 97°06'48.6"W) in Manitoba, Canada from 2011 to 2019. The minimum, average, and maximum daily soil temperature at 5, 20, 50 and, 100 cm depth of three consecutive days were forecasted based only on surface air temperatures of six previous days using support vector machines (SVM), extreme gradient boosted trees (XGB), and artificial neural network (ANN) methods. In the next step, the Wavelet Transform (WT) was employed for air temperature at the data preprocessing stage to see if it can improve the models’ performance. The results of this study showed that using WT for air temperature at data preprocessing stage can significantly improve the models’ performance for all depths. Moreover, it illustrated that, as the depth of the target variable increases, where the soil temperature value is less fluctuated and steadier, the DWT carried out more improvement. It also revealed that, the Wavelet Artificial Neural Network (WANN) is more accurate in comparison with other studied algorithms.   
